---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Git exercises
---

# Git Exercises

Understanding the intricacies of Git is an underrated talent that I wish I had. I've had to search up rebasing vs merging dozens of times because I never seem to remember which one is which. Nevertheless, you don't need to be an expert at Git to derive value from it. In fact, it can be as simple as three commands if you want it to be: `git init`, `git add`, `git commit`. If you want to learn more, here are [some exercises](https://cs.nyu.edu/~jk157/ossd_s25/slides/git_experiment_instructions.md) that serve as a walkthrough of some basic commands. Very useful.

<!--more-->

# Browser Extensions

This week in class for [OSSD](https://cs.nyu.edu/~jk157/ossd_s25/), we had presentations on browser extensions made by our peers. Some were useful, some were wacky. I like wacky. My favorite two were:

* [I Did That](https://github.com/ossd-s25/i-did-that-extension)

Adds a sticker of Donald Trump with the caption "I DID THAT!" to websites under the whitehouse.gov domain. Not very useful, but nevertheless funny to see. Very reminiscent of "Thanks Obama" memes of last decade.

* [Browser Scroller](https://github.com/ossd-s25/Browser-Scroller)

An extension that makes websites endless while scrolling them for you. The constant movement paired with the duplicating of the site's contents when the scroll position nears the bottom of the page yields some entertaining interactions.

I think the biggest takeaway from my experience working on an extension and from watching other teams' presentations is that the engagement and excitement within teams to work on their projects was the greatest predictor of project quality. This often holds true, and looking forward, is probably what I will focus on when deciding projects for OSSD in the future.
